## Problem Description

### (a) PART-1: Clustering  
i. **Dataset description:** You are provided a dataset with 2 variables (x; y). Your data is stored in the file data/clustering-sample.csv.

ii. In this exercise, you will apply three different types of clustering methods to the dataset supplied to you, and then compare their results:

**A. Clustering:** You will write code in the function alda cluster() to manually implement KMeans, Single Link and Complete Link clustering. Detailed instructions for 
implementation and allowed packages have been provided in hw4.R and in hw4 checker.R.

**B. SSE Calculation:** In the function alda calculate sse(), we have given you code to calculate the total SSE for a given clustering on a given dataset. The total SSE 
is the sum of squared error, summed over each cluster. To calculate the SSE for a cluster, first calculate the centroid for the cluster, then calculate to total Euclidean 
distance (error) from each point to that centroid. Read over the code to check your understanding.  

**C. Analysis-1:** KMeans Elbow Plot: You will write code in the function alda kmeans elbow plot() to generate an elbow plot to help you choose a value of k for k-means 
clustering. Note - that you can use alda calculate sse() to calculate the SSE for each value of k. Generate this elbow plot and save it as instructed, and place 
this plot in your PDF.Using this plot, report what you think is the best value of k and your justification for this choice in the PDF.  

**D. Analysis-2:** Comparison of three clustering methods in terms of SSE: Use the method alda calculate sse() for calculating SSE. You have been given code in which prints 
the SSE values for all the three clustering methods (with k = 2 for k-means). Purely based on SSE, which clustering method do you think is the best?

**E. Analysis-3:** Visual comparison of three clustering methods: I've given you code for visualizing the clusters in hw4 checker.R, which plots the data with their cluster
assignments for k = 2 for all the three clustering methods. Based on these plots, which clustering method do you think is the best?

**F. Analysis-4:** Visual comparison vs SSE: Is your answer for visual comparison (C) the same as for SSE (D) the same? What conclusions can you draw from this? How do
visualizations compare with numeric measures of cluster quality? Are numeric measures always reliable? Explain your answers in 3-4 sentences.

### (b) PART-2: Classification

**i. Dataset description:** You are provided a dataset with 5 variables. Variables x1 - x4 refer to the independent variables, while variable class is your class variable. 
Training data is stored in the file data/classification-train.csv, and test data is stored in the file data/classification-test.csv.

ii. In this exercise, you will apply an Support Vector Machine (SVM) classification method to the dataset supplied to you:

**A. Support Vector Machine:** You will use the e1071 library for training and testing an SVM model. In this exercise, you will use tune function to tune svm models under 
the selected kernel. After tuning, you will report the best model and the prediction results on the test set generated by the best model. Implement the function alda svm() 
and tune each hyperparameter as instructed in the comments (Note: some of the hyperparameters are kernel-specific). Detailed requirements for implementation, along with 
relevant functions and allowed packages have been provided svm_kmeans.R

**B. Compare the kernels:** After getting the predictions for each kernels with hyperparameter tuning, you will first use the plotting functions to visualize the prediction 
results, and compare these results. Which kernel(s) do you think worked best for this dataset? Also, you are required to implement a function classification compare accuracy, 
to calculate the accuracy of every kernels. The details are also included in code.